my homemade pretzels
with crispy fried onions are soft and
fluffy knots of bready perfection
i absolutely love pretzels and recently
over the last few years they've just
kind of popped up everywhere when you go
to a shopping center there's a little
car
that do pretzels sweets savory dips
sprinkles all sorts but i actually
really like making them
and the secret to any good pretzel is in
the dough
so i'm going to start off with 500 grams
of strong bread flour
into my mixing bowl then pop in 7 grams
of fast acting yeast
25 grams of caster sugar and my favorite
store cupboard staple
a tablespoon of onion granules
and to ramp up the flavor shop bought
crispy fried onions
oh my goodness whoever came up with
these is sitting by a pool in a very
fancy house
they're cheap and they add so much
flavor
30 grams of those and two teaspoons of
dried chives
got 50 grams of melted butter
so give that a little mix and then i'm
gonna make her well in the center
and i've got 300 mils of warm water as
soon as that water goes in you can
really really smell that onion
give it a mix and you want to keep
mixing it
so you haven't got any floury bits left
over i'm going to put it on a high speed
and it should take about five maybe six
minutes
[Music]
that's ready it's smooth and it's lovely
and stretchy and it's definitely oniony
pop that into the bowl cover it up find
the warmest spot in your house
and leave it to double in size
proving time depends on the room
temperature so be sure to keep an eye on
it
i want to make 12 pretzels so i'm going
to be a little bit exact a bit precise
just because
i like to geek out when it comes to
baking bread and each dough ball is
going to be 75 grams
if you wanted to you could just kind of
eyeball 12 row balls and they could be
kind of
around the same size that's absolutely
fine but i like it to be exact just
because it means that
i won't get one pretzel that's under
baked or one that's
over baked i've got my 12 equal
dough balls and i'm gonna get rid of my
scales
and then replace it with a ruler because
i want these to be exactly
30 centimeters long i'm just using my
hands
when you spread your fingers out like
that you just get this lovely even
dough sausage and now for the fun bit
you grab your dough and you go
over and then we're gonna tie a little
knot
and then
tap one over a little pretzel nut
and then just keep going
the wonder of baking bread never ceases
to amaze me it's a skill i think we
should all have and it is
cheap and cheerful it's something that i
want to teach my children and i want my
kids to love baking because they
certainly love eating it that's for sure
pop them on some baking paper
drizzled with olive oil to stop them
from sticking so these need to proof for
15 minutes
i'm gonna leave them covered in some
greased cling
and next a crucial step a pretzel just
isn't a pretzel unless you boil the
dough before you bake it
bring 300 ml of water to the boil and
add three tablespoons of bicarbonate of
soda
i love it when it does that i'm just
gently
going to dunk my paper
into there
and just slide that in they only need a
quick dip
turn it around quickly 30 seconds max
and then take them up this bike up bath
gives your pretzel its chewy texture
bronzed look and tangy taste
so i could bake these just exactly as
they are but i want to add a delicious
crunchy flavorful topping on top of
these pretzels
first a brush with beaten egg for a
shiny finish
then mix up a teaspoon each of onion
granules paprika and salt
[Music]
sprinkle the top of each one
don't be scared you just think about how
much flavor is in that
[Music]
and that's it they're ready to bake in
the oven
[Music]
oh my goodness look at those look at
those
my crispy onion pretzels a deliciously
easy way to treat yourself without
spending a fortune
the egg wash has given it that golden
glaze and you can see where it's baked
we've got those little ridges of
unglazed
pretzel that have escaped and then that
crusty
spicy oniony top and i'm going to
rip one right open look at that
oh
no such thing as too much butter
i'll go in here
chewy pillowy soft but best of all
packed with delicious onion
you do not need to go to a shopping
center for pretzels
oh no make them yourself